README.md, before:

# Pymaceuticals - Matplotlib Challenge

Analyze and compare the performance of anti-cancer drug of interest, Capomulin, versus the other treatment regimens on 249 mice identified with SCC tumor growth. Generate all of the tables and figures needed for the technical report of the study and come up with a top-level summary of the study results.

## Programming Language / Applications - Used for Analysis

  * Python 
    - Pandas Library
    - Matplotlib Library
  * Jupyter Notebook

## Analysis

### Data Wrangling

Before beginning the analysis, check the data for any mouse ID with duplicate time points and remove any data associated with that mouse ID. Use the cleaned data for the remaining steps.

### Summary Statistics Table

Generate a summary statistics table consisting of the mean, median, variance, standard deviation, and SEM of the tumor volume for each drug regimen.

### Data Visualization

* Generate a summary statistics table consisting of the mean, median, variance, standard deviation, and SEM of the tumor volume for each drug regimen.

* Generate a bar plot using both Pandas's `DataFrame.plot()` and Matplotlib's `pyplot` that shows  the number of total mice for each treatment regimen throughout the course of the study.

* Generate a pie plot using both Pandas's `DataFrame.plot()` and Matplotlib's `pyplot` that shows the distribution of female or male mice in the study.

* Calculate the final tumor volume of each mouse across four of the most promising treatment regimens: Capomulin, Ramicane, Infubinol, and Ceftamin. Calculate the quartiles and IQR and quantitatively determine if there are any potential outliers across all four treatment regimens.

* Using Matplotlib, generate a box and whisker plot of the final tumor volume for all four treatment regimens and highlight any potential outliers in the plot by changing their color and style.

* Select a mouse that was treated with Capomulin and generate a line plot of tumor volume vs. time point for that mouse.

* Generate a scatter plot of mouse weight versus average tumor volume for the Capomulin treatment regimen.

* Calculate the correlation coefficient and linear regression model between mouse weight and average tumor volume for the Capomulin treatment. Plot the linear regression model on top of the previous scatter plot.

### Data Analysis

Look across all generated figures/tables and write at least three observations or inferences that can be made from the data. Include these observations at the top of notebook.

---

## Contributors

- Usha Saravanakumar <ushaakumaar@gmail.com>

Commit message:

Updated Readme file with link to the Jupyter Notebook file

README.md, after:

# Pymaceuticals - Matplotlib Challenge

Analyze and compare the performance of anti-cancer drug of interest, Capomulin, versus the other treatment regimens on 249 mice identified with SCC tumor growth. Generate all of the tables and figures needed for the technical report of the study and come up with a top-level summary of the study results.

## Programming Language / Applications - Used for Analysis

  * Python 
    - Pandas Library
    - Matplotlib Library
  * Jupyter Notebook

## Analysis

Analysis includes each of the following in a [Jupyter Notebook](Pymaceuticals/pymaceuticals_starter.ipynb) with viewable Data Frames:

### Data Wrangling

Before beginning the analysis, check the data for any mouse ID with duplicate time points and remove any data associated with that mouse ID. Use the cleaned data for the remaining steps.

### Summary Statistics Table

Generate a summary statistics table consisting of the mean, median, variance, standard deviation, and SEM of the tumor volume for each drug regimen.

### Data Visualization

* Generate a summary statistics table consisting of the mean, median, variance, standard deviation, and SEM of the tumor volume for each drug regimen.

* Generate a bar plot using both Pandas's `DataFrame.plot()` and Matplotlib's `pyplot` that shows  the number of total mice for each treatment regimen throughout the course of the study.

* Generate a pie plot using both Pandas's `DataFrame.plot()` and Matplotlib's `pyplot` that shows the distribution of female or male mice in the study.

* Calculate the final tumor volume of each mouse across four of the most promising treatment regimens: Capomulin, Ramicane, Infubinol, and Ceftamin. Calculate the quartiles and IQR and quantitatively determine if there are any potential outliers across all four treatment regimens.

* Using Matplotlib, generate a box and whisker plot of the final tumor volume for all four treatment regimens and highlight any potential outliers in the plot by changing their color and style.

* Select a mouse that was treated with Capomulin and generate a line plot of tumor volume vs. time point for that mouse.

* Generate a scatter plot of mouse weight versus average tumor volume for the Capomulin treatment regimen.

* Calculate the correlation coefficient and linear regression model between mouse weight and average tumor volume for the Capomulin treatment. Plot the linear regression model on top of the previous scatter plot.

### Data Analysis

Look across all generated figures/tables and write at least three observations or inferences that can be made from the data. Include these observations at the top of notebook.

---

## Contributors

- Usha Saravanakumar <ushaakumaar@gmail.com>
